# LHE-Codec



This is a python image coder-decoder using the LHE algorithm. It will codify chrominance and/or luminance hops, and will use Huffman coding to represent them as symbols.



## C project



You can check a more detailed project in C here: *https://github.com/magonzalezc/LHE*



## More info



You can learn more about LHE in this article: *http://oa.upm.es/37459/1/INVE_MEM_2014_200038.pdf*



## How to install (Windows)



1. Install Python 2.7 and the IDLE Editor if you dont have them in your computer.

2. Open a command prompt (cmd) and go to the path you installed Python. Go to the "Scripts" subfolder and type:

*pip install numpy*
*pip install pillow*

3. Open the IDLE editor with example.py and execute it with the F5 key or the Run menu.



## How to install (Linux)



1. Install Python 2.7 if you dont have it in your computer.

2. Open a new terminal and type:

*sudo apt-get install python-pip*
*sudo pip install numpy*
*sudo pip install pillow*

3. Go to the path where example.py is and execute it with *python example.py*



## How to use (All)

The program will ask you what do you want to do. Type *enc* for encoding or *dec* for decoding. You can also type *exit* to close the program.

### Encoding

Once you selected encoding, the program will ask you the chrominance mode you want and the image you want to work with. This codec only works with .bmp images, be sure to select one. You will know when the program finishes the encoding.

### Decoding

The program wont ask you anything if you select decoding. You must have a .lhe file in the output_lhe folder (generated by the encoder) and it will create the image in the output_img folder. If you want to decode an external .lhe file, be sure to rename it to lhe_file.lhe and save it in the output_lhe folder. You will know when the program finishes the decoding.

Note: Please, dont try to decode without encoding first, since it will close the program ^.^